The next day,
when the King's daughter was sitting at table with the King and all the court,
and eating from her golden plate,
there came something pitter patter up the marble stairs,
and then there came a knocking at the door, and a voice crying:
    "Youngest King's daughter, let me in!"

And she got up and ran to see who it could be,
but when she opened the door,
there was the frog sitting outside.

Then she shut the door hastily and went back to her seat,
feeling very uneasy.

The King noticed how quickly her heart was beating, and said:
    "My child, what are you afraid of?
    "Is there a giant standing at the door ready to carry you away?"

"Oh no,"
    answered she,
"no giant, but a horrid frog."

"And what does the frog want?"
    asked the King.

"O dear father,"
    answered she,
"when I was sitting by the well yesterday, and playing with my golden ball,
"it fell into the water, and while I was crying for the loss of it,
"the frog came and got it again for me on condition I would let him be my companion,
"but I never thought that he could leave the water and come after me;
"but now there he is outside the door, and he wants to come in to me."

And then they all heard him knocking the second time and crying:

    "Youngest King's daughter,
    Open to me!
    By the well water
    What promised
    you me?
    Youngest King's daughter
    Now open to me!"

"That which thou hast promised must thou perform,"
    said the King,
"so go now and let him in."

So she went and opened the door, and the frog hopped in,
following at her heels, till she reached her chair.

Then he stopped and cried:
    "Lift me up to sit by you."

But she delayed doing so until the King ordered her.

When once the frog was on the chair, he wanted to get on the table,
and there he sat and said:
    "Now push your golden plate a little nearer,
    "so that we may eat together."

And so she did, but everybody might see how unwilling she was,
and the frog feasted heartily, but every morsel seemed to stick in her throat.