It was not long before the Virgin Mary came back from her journey.

She called the girl before her, and asked to have the keys of heaven back.

When the maiden gave her the bunch, the Virgin looked into her eyes and said:
    "Hast thou not opened the thirteenth door also?"

"No,"
    she replied.

Then she laid her hand on the girl's heart, and felt how it beat and beat,
and saw right well that she had disobeyed her order and had opened the door.

    Then she said once again:
"Art thou certain that thou hast not done it?"

"Yes,"
    said the girl, for the second time.

Then she perceived the finger which had become golden from touching the fire of heaven,
and saw well that the child had sinned, and said for the third time:
    "Hast thou not done it?"

"No,"
    said the girl for the third time.

    Then said the Virgin Mary:
"Thou hast not obeyed me,
"and besides that thou hast lied,
"thou art no longer worthy to be in heaven."

Then the girl fell into a deep sleep,
and when she awoke she lay on the earth below, and in the midst of a wilderness.

She wanted to cry out, but she could bring forth no sound.

She sprang up and wanted to run away, but whithersoever she turned herself,
she was continually held back by thick hedges of thorns through which she could not break.

In the desert, in which she was imprisoned, there stood an old hollow tree,
and this had to be her dwelling-place.

Into this she crept when night came, and here she slept.

Here, too, she found a shelter from storm and rain, but it was a miserable life,
and bitterly did she weep when she remembered how happy she had been in heaven,
and how the angels had played with her.

Roots and wild berries were her only food, and for these she sought as far as she could go.

In the autumn she picked up the fallen nuts and leaves, and carried them into the hole.

The nuts were her food in winter, and when snow and ice came,
she crept amongst the leaves like a poor little animal that she might not freeze.

Before long her clothes were all torn, and one bit of them after another fell off her.

As soon, however, as the sun shone warm again, she went out and sat in front of the tree,
and her long hair covered her on all sides like a mantle.

Thus she sat year after year, and felt the pain and the misery of the world.