The King continued:
    "Wilt thou go with me to my castle?"

Then she just nodded her head a little.

The King took her in his arms, carried her to his horse, and rode home with her,
and when he reached the royal castle he caused her to be dressed in beautiful garments,
and gave her all things in abundance.

Although she could not speak,
she was still so beautiful and charming that he began to love her with all his heart,
and it was not long before he married her.

After a year or so had passed, the Queen brought a son into the world.

Thereupon the Virgin Mary appeared to her in the night when she lay in her bed alone, and said:
    "If thou wilt tell the truth and confess that thou didst unlock the forbidden door,
    "I will open thy mouth and give thee back thy speech,
    "but if thou perseverest in thy sin,
    "and deniest obstinately,
    "I will take thy new-born child away with me."

Then the queen was permitted to answer, but she remained hard, and said:
    "No, I did not open the forbidden door,"
and the Virgin Mary took the new-born child from her arms, and vanished with it.

Next morning when the child was not to be found,
it was whispered among the people that the Queen was a man-eater,
and had killed her own child.

She heard all this and could say nothing to the contrary,
but the King would not believe it, for he loved her so much.

When a year had gone by the Queen again bore a son,
and in the night the Virgin Mary again came to her, and said:
    "If thou wilt confess that thou openedst the forbidden door,
    "I will give thee thy child back and untie thy tongue;
    "but if you continuest in sin and deniest it,
    "I will take away with me this new child also."

Then the Queen again said:
    "No, I did not open the forbidden door;"
and the Virgin took the child out of her arms, and away with her to heaven.

Next morning, when this child also had disappeared,
the people declared quite loudly that the Queen had devoured it,
and the King's councillors demanded that she should be brought to justice.

The King, however, loved her so dearly that he would not believe it,
and commanded the councillors under pain of death not to say any more about it.